The Project Gutenberg eBook of Shells and pebbles, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Shells and pebbles
       A story for children

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: November 30, 2022 [eBook #69452]

Language: English

Produced by: The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SHELLS AND PEBBLES ***





[Illustration]




                           SHELLS AND PEBBLES.

                          A Story for Children.

               BY THE AUTHOR OF “STORIES FOR THE NURSERY.”

                     PUBLISHED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF
            THE COMMITTEE OF GENERAL LITERATURE AND EDUCATION,
                  APPOINTED BY THE SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING
                           CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE.

                                 LONDON:
                SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE:
                        SOLD AT THE DEPOSITORIES:
              77, GREAT QUEEN STREET, LINCOLN’S INN FIELDS;
                    4, ROYAL EXCHANGE; 48, PICCADILLY;
                         AND BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.

                                 LONDON:
                   R. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS,
                            BREAD STREET HILL.




SHELLS AND PEBBLES.


Children who were born, and have lived all their lives, in an inland
county, scarcely know what is meant by “the sea.”

Henry Miller was one of these; he was eight years old, and though he had
been taken, when quite a baby, to the sea-shore, he could not recollect
anything about it.

Now, if you live near the sea, I dare say you may think: “Well, I should
not like to live in an inland county, so far away from the sea as never
to be able to walk on the beach, or to climb the rocks, or to pick up
curious things on the shore. I would not be Henry Miller for the world.”

You will laugh, perhaps, at the way that Henry found out that the sea was
salt; but, after all, he may now know some things about it which you do
not; and, though he was not many hours on the shore, he may have picked
up some curious things which you never saw in your life. Some other
things he saw, which, I doubt not, you have seen, but he may have learnt
something even about these which you do not know, so that what was told
to him may be new to you also.

But if you too, like Henry Miller, live inland, you will be pleased to
hear what he saw, though nothing happened to him different from what any
little boy may meet with when visiting the sea-side. I am not going to
tell you an amusing story, but only to write about things which any one
who has eyes, and knows how to use them, may see for himself, and which
any one who wishes to learn may read of in useful books, or find out by
asking those who know better than himself.

Henry Miller and his father, then, went last winter to spend two or three
days in a town on the south coast of England. The day after they arrived,
they walked to some high ground, from which they could see the water.
Henry had seen rivers and ponds large enough for ships to sail on, but
what now lay before him was very different. A broad sheet of water, shut
in on both sides by high land, stretched out so far that nothing could
be seen beyond it. Whether the water rose till it met the sky, or the
sky came down till it met the water, or whether they met each other half
way, he could not make out. This sheet of water, his father told him,
was called a bay. There were many ships in it, most of them lying quite
still, riding at anchor, that is, each fastened by strong chains to an
iron anchor, which the sailors had thrown over into the water, and which
lay fixed by one of its flukes, or large teeth, to the bottom. Some of
them had their masts broken, for there had been a dreadful storm a few
days before, and they had sailed into this bay for shelter.

In the distance they could see the sails of a tall ship, which was coming
in, but, strange to say, not a bit of the ship itself was in sight—it
seemed to be quite sunk beneath the surface. Mr. Miller reminded Henry
that the earth was round, like the globe in the school-room at home, and
that the reason why the hull of the vessel could not be seen was that the
round surface of the globe came between it and his eye; but that if he
could see through the water between, he would find that the hull of the
ship was floating just like the vessels riding at anchor.

A little way from the land was an island, on which some houses were
built. The land on which Henry stood was so much higher than the island,
that he could see quite over it, and make out, quite well, that it really
was a piece of land surrounded by water.

After standing here a short time, and watching the boats, which were
sailing to and fro, some with sails, and some moved onwards by oars, they
walked down from the high ground by a broad road, and then by some stone
steps which had been cut in the rock, until they stood upon the beach.

Though in the middle of winter, it was not very cold. A fresh breeze
was blowing towards the shore, which ruffled the surface of the water,
making it rise in little waves. A little way out, the waves rose and fell
without breaking, but, as they came near the shore, they curled over in
long white lines of foam, and chased one another up the beach, making
a dashing noise, which never ceased. Here and there, where rough rocks
jutted out into the sea, the waves rose much higher, and dashed over them
with such violence, that no one could stand with safety at their edges.
Sea-gulls, some nearly white, and others dark grey, were flying about,
sometimes dipping into the water, and rising again as if they had stooped
to pick up something. Mr. Miller said he supposed they were feeding on
bits of meat or fish, which had been thrown over from the ships. In
summer, they often fly about in large flocks, darting down in the same
way; but then they are generally employed in real fishing, and a large
flock marks the place where a shoal of pilchards, or herrings, or sprats,
is swimming near the surface. Then, too, they are of great use to the
fisherman, who is taught by them where to throw over his nets with the
best chance of a catch. In winter, these fish keep in deep water, so
that the gulls, who cannot dive, are obliged to find some other kind of
food. There are several different kinds of gulls, but all that were seen
to-day were of the same sort, the only difference being that the young
birds had darker plumage than the others.

At some distance from shore, Mr. Miller pointed out to Henry something
black in the water, but, before he had time to look, it was gone. In
about a minute’s time, the head and long neck of a bird suddenly showed
themselves, turned from side to side with a quick jerk, and disappeared
again. “That is a cormorant,” said Mr. Miller; “a bird who, at this
season, has a much better chance of catching fish than a gull, for he
can not only swim but dive, and stay under water for a very long time.
A little does not satisfy him, but when he _has_ had enough, he flies
along close to the water, until he has found a safe rock, where he
spreads his wings to dry in the sun or wind, and then goes a fishing
again.”

[Illustration: CORMORANT.]

Henry recollected having been once told not to eat like a cormorant; and
though he did not then know what a cormorant was, he now began to suspect
that boys got that name when they ate so much bread-and-butter that they
were fit for nothing afterwards, but to lie basking in the sun.

He had heard that sea-water was salt, but had never had an opportunity of
knowing it for himself; so when his papa told him to put into his mouth
a wet pebble, which he had just picked up, he soon spat it out, making a
very wry face.

“Where does all the salt come from which gives a taste to so much water?”
was a natural question, but not a very easy one to answer.

Mr. Miller, however, said that a great quantity of salt was washed into
the sea by rivers, and that though the water was drawn up by the sun,
in the form of vapour, the salt was not. Besides this, it is supposed
that there are, in the bottom of the sea, large rocks of salt, which are
constantly being dissolved by the water, and give it its bitter taste.

Not many days after, when Henry wanted to know how salt was made, Mr.
Miller reminded him of sea-water, and told him that, in some parts of
England, during summer, salt-water was allowed to flow into shallow pits,
from which the heat of the sun drew up the water in vapour, leaving the
salt behind. This, he said, was scraped up and purified. In some inland
countries, such as Poland, salt is dug out of mines. A great deal of the
salt which we use is got from salt springs, a long way from the sea,
which, it is supposed, flow through or over rocks of salt under ground.

A man now passed by, having something in his hand, which he showed to Mr.
Miller, and asked him if it was coral.

“No,” said Mr. Miller, “it is not coral, but a kind of sponge, which has
been torn by the late storm from the rock on which it grew.”

Henry looked about very carefully, in the hope of finding a piece which
he might wash himself with, when he went home; but though he was told
that it was not likely that he would find the right sort, which is
brought from the Mediterranean Sea, he did not give over his search.

He did not succeed, but presently came to his papa bringing something,
which, he had made up his mind, must be a sea-beetle.

It was about as large as his hand, nearly square; black, shining, and
leathery, and from each corner stuck out a long, black horn. Two of these
horns were hooked at the end, and two were straight. When he pressed it,
he found that it was hollow; but as soon as he took off his fingers it
recovered its shape again, being as elastic as an india-rubber ball.

“This,” said Mr. Miller, “is not a beetle, but an egg.”

Henry had seen thrushes’ eggs, and eaten hens’ eggs, but they were so
unlike this black leather bag that he thought his papa must be joking.

[Illustration: PURSE OF SKATE.]

“Not the egg of a bird, but of a fish. As we came through the market
to-day, I showed you some flat and very ugly fishes, with eyes and mouth
something like those of a human being, and with a long tail like that of
a quadruped.”

Henry remembered to have seen them, and that they were called skates.
“And is this the egg of a skate?”

Not exactly the egg, but the egg-shell. There was once a yelk in it,
something like that in a hen’s egg. Out of this yelk a young skate grew,
and when it was large enough it forced its way out through this end.

Mr. Miller pinched one end of the egg-shell, or purse, as it is called,
between his finger and thumb, holding it as one would a letter which one
wanted to read without breaking the seal, and the end of the purse opened.

“And did it float about in the water while the young fish was growing, or
was it laid on the beach?”

“Neither: if it had been left to float about in the water, it would soon
have been eaten by gulls, or driven ashore; and how can fishes lay their
eggs on the land? No, it was left by the fish among the weed which grows
at the bottom of the sea, and the hooked horns held on by the stem of one
of them, until the fish had escaped. The late storm, I suppose, tore it
away from the weeds and washed it ashore. I have found them with a yelk
in them, but this rarely happens.”

“But, papa, you said that there were weeds in the sea; are they like the
weeds in gardens?”

[Illustration: SEA-WEED.]

Mr. Miller pointed to the rocks, some of which were covered with long
bunches of tangled stems of a dark-brown or green colour, which he said
were sea-weeds. Some stout stems were also lying about the shore, like
horse-whips, with a bunch of roots at one end, and a tuft of leathery
straps at the other. This, too, was a sea-weed. He reminded him, too, of
a book which he had seen at home, filled with crimson, purple, green,
and brown leaves, which he said were also sea-weeds. They do not send
their roots into the ground like garden weeds, but cling to the rocks or
to each other, and are nourished by the water in which they grow.

[Illustration: SEA-TANGLE.]

The purse of the skate was secured, to be carried home as a prize, and a
stem of a large sea-weed was soon made into a whip.

The next curious thing picked up was a piece of stone, so full of holes
as to resemble a piece of honeycomb, except that the holes were round and
not regularly placed.

[Illustration: PHOLAS.]

“This,” said Mr. Miller, “is a piece of limestone, which once formed a
part of one of the rocks jutting into the sea. The holes were made by
shell-fish, but whether made for shelter, or because the animals within
feed on the lime, I cannot say. It is very clear that this piece has
been washing about for a very long time, as it is worn smooth by being
battered against other stones. We must call these shell-fish both useful
and mischievous animals. Here they are certainly useful, for they eat
away parts of the rock until they are not able to bear the force of the
waves, when they break away and are driven on to the beach. I dare say
that a great many years ago the rocks about this place were much higher
than they are now, and were in the way of boats sailing to and fro.
But when the little animals choose to make their houses in quays or
sea-walls, they do much mischief by eating away the foundations.

“I once came here when the water was low, and as I stepped from rock to
rock I broke off several pieces with my foot. The animals were then in
them and alive. They are about the size and shape of a horse-bean; they
have, like oysters, two shells, which are rough, and of a dull yellow
colour. There is another kind of shell-fish, larger than this, which
burrows in rocks, named pholas.”

This was the last curiosity picked up to-day; but before they left the
shore, Mr. Miller went to a cave, in which he recollected to have seen,
a long time before, some plants of sea-fern growing on the roof. They
were too high to be reached; but as he was a great admirer of ferns, and
this kind grew only on the sea-shore, he did not like to miss a chance
of seeing them again. To his great joy, the late storm, which had done
so much damage to the shipping, had washed away one of the sides of the
cave, and a large mass of stone had fallen just beneath the very place
where the ferns grew. He mounted on this, and with the help of a knife,
loosened some small stones around the roots of the ferns, and so took out
some fine plants, roots and all. What was done with these you shall hear
by and by.

The next day was rainy, but on the day following the sun shone brightly,
and there was every prospect of some fine weather. “The tide does not
suit well,” said Mr. Miller, “but as we may not have a chance of another
day’s sunshine, I will hire a carriage, and we will go to a beautiful
part of the coast, which is some miles distant, where you will be able to
pick up shells, and have a much wider view of the sea than that which we
saw the day before yesterday.” Accordingly, a basket of provisions was
packed up, and the carriage was very soon rolling merrily along.

On the way, Henry asked his papa what he meant by saying that “the tide
did not suit.”

Mr. Miller explained to him that the water of the sea was not stagnant
like that of a pond or a lake, nor did it always run one way like that of
a river, but flowed in one direction for a little more than six hours,
and in another during about the same time. “This motion of the water,” he
said, “is called a tide. When the water is flowing towards the shore, the
tide is said to be ‘coming in.’ All this time it is rising on the beach,
and when it ceases to come in, we say that ‘it is high water.’ Soon
after high water it begins to go out again, or ebb, and when it ceases
to ebb we call it ‘low water.’ Now at the place where we are going, the
shore is not made up of little pebbly beaches separated from each other
by rocks jutting out, but long flat sands stretch for several miles.
They are very pleasant to walk on when the tide is out, but it will be
high water to-day just at the time when we reach the coast, so that I am
afraid we shall not be able to have a very long walk on the sands, unless
we wait some time. Never mind! we shall at least have a glorious view of
the sea.”

It was past twelve o’clock, when, after mounting a steep hill, the driver
was told to stop, and to be in waiting at the same place exactly at four.

The basket was taken out; and Mr. Miller and Henry, passing through
a gate, found themselves in a large sloping field, partly covered by
furze-bushes, and seeming to stretch downwards till it quite touched
the sea. There were no high lands here on either side shutting in the
view; nothing but a wide, wide waste of blue water, sparkling in the
sunshine, and, where it touched the land, breaking into a wide edge of
foam. The noise was incessant, sounding something like the rumbling of
many carriages at a distance, now rising, and now falling, like the wind
during a storm, and every now and then mixed with the thundering roar of
some larger wave than usual as it rushed up the sands, or dashed against
a rock.

Henry, in great delight, set off at full speed down the field, expecting
to reach the shore at once; but his race was soon ended, for he shortly
found himself at the brink of a high cliff or precipice, the face of
which was almost as steep as a wall. A narrow winding path was soon
discovered cut through the rock, by the help of which they climbed down,
and at last stood on the shore. The wind was blowing very freshly above,
but here it was quite calm and mild. One might have thought the season
to be spring, or even summer, for all signs of winter, such as mud, bare
trees, and stunted grass, were left behind.

Close to the base of the cliff there were large stones which had fallen
from above; but a few yards out there was nothing but fine sand, so dry
and firm that, though the foot left a mark whereon it rested, and kicked
up a little piece of sand whenever it was lifted, no walking could be
more pleasant.

But it was not this which was noticed at first. The great sight was the
enormous waves, which seemed to grow up out of the water a long way
out, to rise higher and higher, and to rush on faster and faster, till,
in their haste to reach the land, they fell forward, and, dashing into
a sheet of foam, swept far up on the sand; then, growing weaker and
weaker, they made one last sweep, and drew back as if afraid, but were
driven on again by the new waves, which had formed themselves meanwhile.

Mr. Miller said that about every ninth wave was larger than the rest.
Henry and he counted together; and though the eighth or tenth was
sometimes the largest, they accounted for the mistake by supposing that
they must either have missed one, or reckoned the same wave twice.

Many times, as a wave went back, they chased it as far as they could
go without wetting their feet. The sand seemed to grow dry and hard
the instant that the water left it, so that they could follow it very
closely; but soon another great wave came roaring in, and they were
obliged to scamper towards land as fast as their legs would carry them.

Once, while Henry was looking one way and running the other, he came
against the front of a little rock which rose through the sand, and
narrowly escaped a good ducking. Another time he stood on the top of a
little rock which rose like an island through the sand, hoping that the
water would surround him. For several minutes he waited very patiently,
but the waves always stopped before they reached him. At last, just as he
had grown tired, there came a ninth wave, which not only surrounded him,
but rose so high as to dash against his legs. Whether he was frightened,
or the water was too strong for him to stand against, I do not know, but
he sprang off and ran towards the land, wet nearly up to his knees.

It was now high water; and as Henry belonged to that class of boys who
like fresh air, exercise, and bread-and-butter, he gladly heard the
proposal to find a good place where they might sit down to dinner. They
had not to go far. Not a hundred yards off, a small stream came tumbling
over the cliff among some large stones, and, after flowing for a short
distance, sank into the sand before it reached the sea. Towards this they
made their way, frequently picking up shells and other things which had
been washed in by the waves, but throwing them all away again, because
the basket in which they were to be stowed away had yet to be emptied.

A large stone, with a towel spread on it, was the table, and stones
served as seats. The dinner consisted of some slices of cold tongue, and
a hunch of bread. The stream supplied plenty of clear and cold water, and
this was the only part of the feast of which much was left.

“And now,” said Mr. Miller, “that we have made room in our basket, let us
search for curiosities.”

[Illustration: SHELL OF CUTTLE-FISH.]

High up on the sands, and close to the late dining-room, lay a number of
white, flat substances, which puzzled Henry as much as the purse of the
skate had done. They were oval in shape, and about the size of his foot.
One side was hard and rough, the other smoother, and soft enough to be
scratched by the finger-nail. Whether they were bones or shells he could
not tell. “This,” said Mr. Miller, “is the backbone of a cuttle-fish. The
animal, when alive, is soft, and nearly transparent. It has a large head,
on which there are a number of long arms stretching out. It lives on
small fish, which it chases, and then catches hold of by the help of many
small suckers on its arms. When chased itself, it spurts out a quantity
of black fluid, like ink, making the water so thick and dark that its
enemy loses sight of it, and is obliged to give up the chase. Often, when
I have been fishing from a boat, a cuttle-fish has followed a fish which
I have caught, up to the very surface of the water, and sometimes I have
caught the cuttle-fish itself, by darting into it a hook fastened to the
end of a stick.

[Illustration: CUTTLE-FISH AND EGGS.]

“I was once fishing, when the man in the boat with me caught a
cuttle-fish in this way, and having lifted it into the boat too soon, it
spurted its ink with such force as to spatter us all over. It is not used
as food in this country, but it makes excellent bait.”

Scattered along the coast were a number of scarlet berries, which Mr.
Miller looked at very closely, and said they were cranberries.

“But do cranberries grow on sea-weeds?” said Henry.

“No,” replied Mr. Miller, “certainly not; and I can only account for
their being here by supposing that some ship from America must have been
lost at sea during the late gale, and that these berries must have formed
part of her cargo. You remember how dreadfully we heard the wind howling
on Christmas Eve. It was a sad Christmas to many a poor sailor, who
hoped, perhaps, to spend it among his friends on shore; friends, alas!
whom he will now never meet again. See, here is something else which must
have come from a ship.”

This was a small lump of spermaceti, a substance which is obtained from
a kind of whale found in the Arctic regions. It had neither taste nor
smell, and looked exactly like a piece of camphor.

“Look!” said Henry, as he picked up something; “here is a curious piece
of wood full of holes, like the stone which we found the other day.”

[Illustration: TEREDO.]

“This,” said Mr. Miller, “is a piece of wood, which was once, perhaps,
part of a ship that has been wrecked; at all events, it has been a long
time in the water. The holes were made by a kind of worm, called Teredo,
which eats its way into the hardest timber, making it so weak that a
slight blow will crush it. In some seas the Teredo is so abundant, that
no vessel is safe unless its bottom is entirely coated with copper. The
worm is very small when first it gets into the wood, but grows larger as
it eats its way, making a passage through the whole length of a plank,
but never coming to the surface; so that a beam of timber may appear to
be solid, and yet all the while be within as full of holes as a sponge.
As it goes on, it lines its passage with a white shell, which it has the
power of making.” In one of the holes a portion of the white shell was
still remaining.

“Is it not,” continued Mr. Miller, “a wonderful little animal? It can
work its way in the dark, through solid wood, taking care never to turn
a quarter of an inch too much towards the right or towards the left. It
is taught by God to line its house with shell, but no one knows how it
works, or what materials it employs; and, worm as it is, the boldest
sailor would refuse to go to sea in a ship which it had taken hold of. It
may lead us, too, to despise nothing that God has made, however trifling
it may appear.”

[Illustration: BARNACLES.]

The next thing picked up was a piece of cork, covered with barnacles.
Barnacles are small shell-fish, growing on long leathery stems, by which
they fasten themselves to floating wood, or the bottoms of vessels. They
are not so mischievous as the worms mentioned before, as they do not
actually eat the wood; but when, as is sometimes the case, they thickly
cover the bottom of a ship, they prevent it from going quickly through
the water. It is sometimes found necessary to take a ship into a dock, in
order to scrape off the barnacles.

A piece of stone picked up by Henry, looking like a coal-cinder, but
white, Mr. Miller said was pumice-stone. It is one of the kinds of stone
thrown up by volcanoes, or burning mountains. It is so light that it
floats on water. He thought that this piece might, perhaps, have been
thrown from a burning mountain into the sea, or that it might have been
thrown overboard from a ship. It is used on board ships to scrub the
decks with, and on land painters use it in scraping off paint from wood
which is to be coated afresh.

“On the whole,” said he, “most probably it came direct from a volcano,
for I scarcely ever came to this part of the coast without finding some,
and it could scarcely happen that pumice-stone would always be falling
overboard by accident.”

[Illustration: WHELK.]

[Illustration: DONAX.]

[Illustration: VENUS CHIONE.]

The number of shells which lay scattered along the beach was very great.
Some were like snail-shells, but more solid. Mr. Miller knew the names,
but as he thought that Henry would not be able to recollect them, he
only told him that they crawled about rocks and sea-weeds, very much as
snails do on land, some living on sea-weed, and others on dead fish, or
any animal substance they can find. Those which are named periwinkles and
whelks are gathered by people who live near the sea, and sold for food,
but they are neither nice nor wholesome. Others were what Mr. Miller
called bivalves; that is, each animal had two shells, fastened together
by a hinge. There were a great many large white cockle-shells, deeply
furrowed, and having rows of sharp points on the outside. Some were yet
larger, brown outside and white within, and strong enough to scoop up
sand with; others, which were flatter, were scarcely thicker than paper.
Most of these were single, and had no fish in them; but many smaller
kinds were found which had been washed in without injury. These were
stowed away very carefully. The most singular of all was a white one,
four or five inches long, shaped something like the pod of a pea, but
open at both ends. This Mr. Miller called a razor-shell, and said that
the animal lived in the sand, burrowing in it like an earth-worm, and,
perhaps, living on the small sea-insects which it finds.

[Illustration: RAZOR-SHELL.]

Yet more curious than any of the bivalves, was a fish shaped like the
axle and spokes of a wheel. It was dead; but Mr. Miller said that each
of its five arms was covered with holes, through which, when the animal
was alive, it sent out small suckers, and with them caught hold of its
food. Fishermen often find these star-fishes, as they are called, very
troublesome, as they are very abundant in some places, and eat the bait
intended for crabs and lobsters.

Henry had now found so many strange things, which turned out to be quite
different from what he expected, that when he picked up what looked
like a wax-candle, he thought he held in his hand some very wonderful
sea-monster. But a wax-candle it really was, and had been a long time in
the sea, as there were young barnacles attached to one end of it. This,
like the cranberries, no doubt came from a wreck, and was carefully
stored away in the basket, though one could not look at it without sad
thoughts.

They had now walked nearly to the end of the long sands, and Mr. Miller
wished to pass round a rocky point, in order to see what it was that drew
together a large flock of gulls beyond, some of which were flying round
in circles, now and then dipping into the water, some swimming, and some
perched on the dark rocks.

The tide had gone down a good deal, but had not left the rock. Mr. Miller
managed to climb round, and told Henry to wait for him, as this work
required longer and stronger arms than his. He soon came back; and, after
waiting a little while longer, the tide went out so far that, watching
for an opportunity, when a great wave went out, they were able to run
round the point before another came in.

The gulls all rose and flew away as they drew near, but they found, on
the spot where they had been gamboling, an immense number of shells,
with the fish still in them, and had little doubt that the quick eyes of
the gulls had discovered these, and that they had been making a plentiful
feast.

They had now reached another winding path, by which the people who live
near the coast were in the habit of driving mules and donkeys laden with
sea-weed, to be used as manure. After a storm, in summer and autumn, the
coast has a very busy appearance, from the number of people who gain
their living in this way. The weed is first collected into heaps on the
sand, then carried to the top of the cliff, where it is thrown into a
large heap, and allowed to stay until it rots, after which it is spread
on the fields, and is a very useful manure.

Four o’clock having now nearly arrived, they said good-bye to the sea,
with its blue waves, its yellow sands, its shells, its pebbles, and its
many strange things, and found the carriage waiting for them.

In a few days Henry was at home again; but as you may like to know
what he did with his treasures, I will tell you. Some were placed in
his little museum, or collection of curiosities. The larger shells and
pebbles, together with some pieces of spar, which were brought, another
day, from a limestone quarry, were applied to a different purpose.

A round zinc saucer was procured, about fourteen inches across, and three
deep. About six or eight holes were bored in the bottom with a gimlet,
and a number of pieces of broken tiles and flower-pots were placed in it,
with a small pot turned upside down in the middle. Over the potsherds was
placed a layer of moss, and the saucer was filled up with earth. Round
the pot in the middle, the shells and stones were built up to the height
of six or eight inches, and the ferns planted in some more earth between.
The whole was well watered, and then covered with a large glass dome. A
prettier little rockery you never saw. Its only fault is that, when once
made, it scarcely ever requires anything to be done to it. You cannot
give it too much water, for what it does not want drains away through
the holes in the bottom, and the earth is not washed away with it, for
the moss stops it. And you can scarcely make a mistake in giving it too
little water, for, as long as it is covered with a glass, the water,
which rises in vapour, strikes against the dome, and trickles down again
into the saucer. Henry has not yet watered it once since the day it was
made, but he will do so as soon as he sees it beginning to look dry, for
ferns grow best in a moist soil and damp air.

And now I have reached the end of my story. There is little in it but an
account of what Henry and his father saw in the course of a few hours,
on the sea-shore. You too, if you like, may pick up shells and pebbles,
and see in them some of the wondrous works of God’s creation. If you do
not live near the sea, look for curious things by the river’s side, in
the woods, or in the hedges. They are everywhere, all differing one from
another, but alike leading us to admire the wisdom and goodness of God.

          R. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, BREAD STREET HILL.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SHELLS AND PEBBLES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
